README.md, before:

# Claudian

An Obsidian plugin that embeds Claude Agent (using Claude Agent SDK) as a sidebar chat interface. Your vault becomes Claude's working directory, giving it full agentic capabilities: file read/write, bash commands, and multi-step workflows.

## Features

- **Sidebar chat interface**: Talk to Claude without leaving Obsidian
- **Full Claude Code capabilities**: Read, write, edit files, run bash commands
- **Vault-aware**: Claude operates with your vault as the working directory
- **File context awareness**: Auto-attach focused note, or use `@` to mention files
- **Image support**: Send images via drag-and-drop, paste, or file path for vision analysis
- **Excluded tags**: Prevent notes with specific tags from auto-loading as context
- **Streaming responses**: See Claude's responses in real-time
- **Extended thinking**: Watch Claude's reasoning process with live timer display
- **Model selection**: Switch between Haiku, Sonnet, and Opus models (or custom models via environment variables)
- **Custom environment variables**: Configure API providers, custom models, and SDK settings
- **Thinking budget control**: Adjust thinking token budget (Off/Low/Medium/High)
- **Tool call visualization**: Collapsible UI showing tool inputs and results (like Claude Code CLI)
- **Chat history persistence**: Conversations saved across sessions with easy switching
- **Session resume**: Continue previous conversations with full context
- **Permission modes**: Yolo (no prompts) or Safe (per-action approval with memory)
- **Safety blocklist**: Block dangerous commands even in Yolo mode
- **Vault confinement**: All tools (including Bash paths) are restricted to the vault with symlink-safe checks
- **Cancel streaming**: Press Escape to stop a response mid-stream
- **Edited files indicator**: Border highlight on attached edited files, separate “Edited:” chips for non-attached edits, auto-dismiss on focus, and click-to-open tabs (session-scoped)

## Requirements

- [Claude Code CLI](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) installed (the SDK uses it internally)
- Obsidian v1.0.0+
- Desktop only (macOS, Linux, Windows via WSL)

## Installation

### From source (development)

1. Clone this repository into your vault's plugins folder:
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/vault/.obsidian/plugins
   git clone https://github.com/YishenTu/claudian.git
   cd claudian
   ```

2. Install dependencies and build:
   ```bash
   npm install
   npm run build
   ```

3. Enable the plugin in Obsidian:
   - Settings → Community plugins → Enable "Claudian"

### Development

```bash
# Watch mode (auto-rebuild on changes)
npm run dev

# Production build
npm run build
```

## Usage

1. Click the bot icon in the ribbon (left sidebar) to open Claudian
2. Type your message and press Enter to send (Shift+Enter for newline)
3. Claude can read, write, and edit files in your vault
4. Click on tool call headers to expand and see inputs/results

### File Context

- **Auto-attach**: New conversations auto-attach the currently focused note
- **@ mention**: Type `@` anywhere to search and attach files from your vault
- **Remove**: Click `×` on a file chip to remove it
- **Excluded tags**: Notes with tags listed in Settings → Excluded tags won't auto-attach (but can still be manually attached via `@`)
- Files are sent as context with your message; Claude will read them to understand your question

### Image Context

Send images to Claude for analysis, description, or any vision-related task.

**Adding images:**
- **Drag and drop**: Drag image files onto the input area
- **Copy/paste**: Paste images from clipboard (Cmd/Ctrl+V)
- **File path**: Include an image path in your message (auto-detected)

**Supported formats:** JPEG, PNG, GIF, WebP (max 5MB per image)

**Path detection examples:**
- Quoted: `"path/to/image.jpg"` or `'path/to/image.png'`
- Relative: `./screenshots/error.png`
- Vault-relative: `attachments/diagram.png`

**Embedded images in notes:**
When you configure a media folder in settings, Claude can read embedded images:
```markdown
![[screenshot.png]]  →  Claude reads from configured media folder
```

### Example prompts

- "List all notes in this vault"
- "Create a new note called 'Ideas' with a template for brainstorming"
- "Find all notes tagged #project and summarize them"
- "Organize my daily notes into monthly folders"
- "Summarize this note" (with a note attached via @ or auto-attach)

## Configuration

### Settings

- **Enable command blocklist**: Block dangerous bash commands (default: on)
- **Blocked commands**: Patterns to block (supports regex)
- **Show tool usage**: Display file operations in chat
- **Excluded tags**: Tags that prevent notes from auto-loading (e.g., `system`, `private`)
- **Media folder**: Configure where vault stores attachments for embedded image support (e.g., `attachments`)
- **Environment variables**: Custom environment variables for Claude SDK (KEY=VALUE format)
- **Environment snippets**: Save and restore environment variable configurations
- **Permission mode**: Toggle Yolo (bypass prompts) or Safe (require approval)
- **Approved actions**: In Safe mode, manage permanently approved actions (Allow Once vs. Always Allow)

### Default blocklist

- `rm -rf`
- `chmod 777`
- `chmod -R 777`

### Safety and permissions

- **Vault restriction**: File tools and Bash commands are limited to the Obsidian vault. Paths are resolved with `realpath` to prevent symlink escapes; attempts outside the vault are blocked.
- **Approvals**:
  - Safe mode shows an approval modal per tool call.
  - Bash approvals require an exact command match.
  - File tools allow exact or prefix path matches.

## Privacy & Data Use

- **Outbound scope**: Content sent to Claude/custom APIs includes your input, attached files/snippets, images (base64), and model-issued tool calls plus summarized outputs. Default provider is Anthropic; if `ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL` is set, traffic goes to that endpoint.
- **Local storage**: Settings, chat history, approved actions, and environment variable snippets are stored in `.obsidian/plugins/claudian`. Image cache is written to `.claudian-cache/images`; you can clear it when deleting conversations or uninstalling the plugin.
- **Commands & file access**: The plugin can read/write files and execute Bash commands within the vault directory; Safe mode approvals and the blocklist apply, and paths are constrained to the vault via `realpath`.
- **User controls**: You can edit the blocked-command list, switch Safe/Yolo modes, clear history, delete caches, and remove API keys; disabling the plugin stops all remote calls.
- **Telemetry**: No additional telemetry or third-party tracking. Data retention/compliance follows the terms of your configured API provider.

## Architecture

```
src/
├── main.ts              # Plugin entry point
├── ClaudianView.ts      # Sidebar chat UI, orchestrates components
├── ClaudianService.ts   # Claude Agent SDK wrapper
├── ClaudianSettings.ts  # Settings tab
├── systemPrompt.ts      # System prompt for Claude
├── promptInstructions.ts # Dynamic prompt instruction generators
├── imageCache.ts        # Image caching utilities
├── types.ts             # Type definitions
├── utils.ts             # Utility functions (env var parsing, model detection)
└── ui/                  # Modular UI components
    ├── index.ts              # Barrel export
    ├── ApprovalModal.ts      # Permission approval dialog
    ├── InputToolbar.ts       # Model/thinking/permission selectors
    ├── FileContext.ts        # File attachments & @mentions
    ├── ImageContext.ts       # Image drag/drop, paste, path detection
    ├── ToolCallRenderer.ts   # Tool call display
    ├── ThinkingBlockRenderer.ts # Extended thinking UI
    └── EnvSnippetManager.ts  # Environment variable snippets
```

## Roadmap

- [x] Session persistence within sessions (via SDK resume)
- [x] Chat history persistence across plugin restarts
- [x] Conversation switching with history dropdown
- [x] File context awareness (auto-attach + @ mention)
- [x] Context menu: "Ask Claude about this file"
- [x] Extended thinking display (collapsible thinking blocks with live timer)
- [x] Model selection (Haiku, Sonnet, Opus)
- [x] Thinking token budget adjustment (Off/Low/Medium/High)
- [x] Permission modes (Yolo/Safe)
- [x] Edited files indicator for Claude edits (border on attachments, "Edited:" chips, click-to-open, auto-dismiss)
- [x] Modular UI architecture (extracted reusable components)
- [x] Environment variables support with snippet management
- [x] Image support (drag/drop, paste, path detection, embedded images)
- [ ] Skills, Hooks, MCP and other advanced features

## License

Licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Acknowledgments

- [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md) for the plugin API
- [Anthropic](https://anthropic.com) for Claude and the [Claude Agent SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@anthropic-ai/claude-agent-sdk)

Commit message:

feat: add hash-based revert/delete detection for edited files

README.md, after:

# Claudian

An Obsidian plugin that embeds Claude Agent (using Claude Agent SDK) as a sidebar chat interface. Your vault becomes Claude's working directory, giving it full agentic capabilities: file read/write, bash commands, and multi-step workflows.

## Features

- **Sidebar chat interface**: Talk to Claude without leaving Obsidian
- **Full Claude Code capabilities**: Read, write, edit files, run bash commands
- **Vault-aware**: Claude operates with your vault as the working directory
- **File context awareness**: Auto-attach focused note, or use `@` to mention files
- **Image support**: Send images via drag-and-drop, paste, or file path for vision analysis
- **Excluded tags**: Prevent notes with specific tags from auto-loading as context
- **Streaming responses**: See Claude's responses in real-time
- **Extended thinking**: Watch Claude's reasoning process with live timer display
- **Model selection**: Switch between Haiku, Sonnet, and Opus models (or custom models via environment variables)
- **Custom environment variables**: Configure API providers, custom models, and SDK settings
- **Thinking budget control**: Adjust thinking token budget (Off/Low/Medium/High)
- **Tool call visualization**: Collapsible UI showing tool inputs and results (like Claude Code CLI)
- **Chat history persistence**: Conversations saved across sessions with easy switching
- **Session resume**: Continue previous conversations with full context
- **Permission modes**: Yolo (no prompts) or Safe (per-action approval with memory)
- **Safety blocklist**: Block dangerous commands even in Yolo mode
- **Vault confinement**: All tools (including Bash paths) are restricted to the vault with symlink-safe checks
- **Cancel streaming**: Press Escape to stop a response mid-stream
- **Edited files indicator**: Border highlight on attached edited files, separate “Edited:” chips for non-attached edits, SHA-256 revert detection to auto-clear on delete/rename/revert, auto-dismiss on focus, and click-to-open tabs (session-scoped)

## Requirements

- [Claude Code CLI](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/claude-code) installed (the SDK uses it internally)
- Obsidian v1.0.0+
- Desktop only (macOS, Linux, Windows via WSL)

## Installation

### From source (development)

1. Clone this repository into your vault's plugins folder:
   ```bash
   cd /path/to/vault/.obsidian/plugins
   git clone https://github.com/YishenTu/claudian.git
   cd claudian
   ```

2. Install dependencies and build:
   ```bash
   npm install
   npm run build
   ```

3. Enable the plugin in Obsidian:
   - Settings → Community plugins → Enable "Claudian"

### Development

```bash
# Watch mode (auto-rebuild on changes)
npm run dev

# Production build
npm run build
```

## Usage

1. Click the bot icon in the ribbon (left sidebar) to open Claudian
2. Type your message and press Enter to send (Shift+Enter for newline)
3. Claude can read, write, and edit files in your vault
4. Click on tool call headers to expand and see inputs/results

### File Context

- **Auto-attach**: New conversations auto-attach the currently focused note
- **@ mention**: Type `@` anywhere to search and attach files from your vault
- **Remove**: Click `×` on a file chip to remove it
- **Excluded tags**: Notes with tags listed in Settings → Excluded tags won't auto-attach (but can still be manually attached via `@`)
- Files are sent as context with your message; Claude will read them to understand your question

### Image Context

Send images to Claude for analysis, description, or any vision-related task.

**Adding images:**
- **Drag and drop**: Drag image files onto the input area
- **Copy/paste**: Paste images from clipboard (Cmd/Ctrl+V)
- **File path**: Include an image path in your message (auto-detected)

**Supported formats:** JPEG, PNG, GIF, WebP (max 5MB per image)

**Path detection examples:**
- Quoted: `"path/to/image.jpg"` or `'path/to/image.png'`
- Relative: `./screenshots/error.png`
- Vault-relative: `attachments/diagram.png`

**Embedded images in notes:**
When you configure a media folder in settings, Claude can read embedded images:
```markdown
![[screenshot.png]]  →  Claude reads from configured media folder
```

### Example prompts

- "List all notes in this vault"
- "Create a new note called 'Ideas' with a template for brainstorming"
- "Find all notes tagged #project and summarize them"
- "Organize my daily notes into monthly folders"
- "Summarize this note" (with a note attached via @ or auto-attach)

## Configuration

### Settings

- **Enable command blocklist**: Block dangerous bash commands (default: on)
- **Blocked commands**: Patterns to block (supports regex)
- **Show tool usage**: Display file operations in chat
- **Excluded tags**: Tags that prevent notes from auto-loading (e.g., `system`, `private`)
- **Media folder**: Configure where vault stores attachments for embedded image support (e.g., `attachments`)
- **Environment variables**: Custom environment variables for Claude SDK (KEY=VALUE format)
- **Environment snippets**: Save and restore environment variable configurations
- **Permission mode**: Toggle Yolo (bypass prompts) or Safe (require approval)
- **Approved actions**: In Safe mode, manage permanently approved actions (Allow Once vs. Always Allow)

### Default blocklist

- `rm -rf`
- `chmod 777`
- `chmod -R 777`

### Safety and permissions

- **Vault restriction**: File tools and Bash commands are limited to the Obsidian vault. Paths are resolved with `realpath` to prevent symlink escapes; attempts outside the vault are blocked.
- **Approvals**:
  - Safe mode shows an approval modal per tool call.
  - Bash approvals require an exact command match.
  - File tools allow exact or prefix path matches.

## Privacy & Data Use

- **Outbound scope**: Content sent to Claude/custom APIs includes your input, attached files/snippets, images (base64), and model-issued tool calls plus summarized outputs. Default provider is Anthropic; if `ANTHROPIC_BASE_URL` is set, traffic goes to that endpoint.
- **Local storage**: Settings, chat history, approved actions, and environment variable snippets are stored in `.obsidian/plugins/claudian`. Image cache is written to `.claudian-cache/images`; you can clear it when deleting conversations or uninstalling the plugin.
- **Commands & file access**: The plugin can read/write files and execute Bash commands within the vault directory; Safe mode approvals and the blocklist apply, and paths are constrained to the vault via `realpath`.
- **User controls**: You can edit the blocked-command list, switch Safe/Yolo modes, clear history, delete caches, and remove API keys; disabling the plugin stops all remote calls.
- **Telemetry**: No additional telemetry or third-party tracking. Data retention/compliance follows the terms of your configured API provider.

## Architecture

```
src/
├── main.ts              # Plugin entry point
├── ClaudianView.ts      # Sidebar chat UI, orchestrates components
├── ClaudianService.ts   # Claude Agent SDK wrapper
├── ClaudianSettings.ts  # Settings tab
├── systemPrompt.ts      # System prompt for Claude
├── promptInstructions.ts # Dynamic prompt instruction generators
├── imageCache.ts        # Image caching utilities
├── types.ts             # Type definitions
├── utils.ts             # Utility functions (env var parsing, model detection)
└── ui/                  # Modular UI components
    ├── index.ts              # Barrel export
    ├── ApprovalModal.ts      # Permission approval dialog
    ├── InputToolbar.ts       # Model/thinking/permission selectors
    ├── FileContext.ts        # File attachments & @mentions
    ├── ImageContext.ts       # Image drag/drop, paste, path detection
    ├── ToolCallRenderer.ts   # Tool call display
    ├── ThinkingBlockRenderer.ts # Extended thinking UI
    └── EnvSnippetManager.ts  # Environment variable snippets
```

## Roadmap

- [x] Session persistence within sessions (via SDK resume)
- [x] Chat history persistence across plugin restarts
- [x] Conversation switching with history dropdown
- [x] File context awareness (auto-attach + @ mention)
- [x] Context menu: "Ask Claude about this file"
- [x] Extended thinking display (collapsible thinking blocks with live timer)
- [x] Model selection (Haiku, Sonnet, Opus)
- [x] Thinking token budget adjustment (Off/Low/Medium/High)
- [x] Permission modes (Yolo/Safe)
- [x] Edited files indicator for Claude edits (border on attachments, "Edited:" chips, click-to-open, auto-dismiss)
- [x] Modular UI architecture (extracted reusable components)
- [x] Environment variables support with snippet management
- [x] Image support (drag/drop, paste, path detection, embedded images)
- [ ] Skills, Hooks, MCP and other advanced features

## License

Licensed under the [MIT License](LICENSE).

## Acknowledgments

- [Obsidian](https://obsidian.md) for the plugin API
- [Anthropic](https://anthropic.com) for Claude and the [Claude Agent SDK](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@anthropic-ai/claude-agent-sdk)
